=head1 NAME

sessiond - standalone X session manager

=head1 SYNOPSIS

B<sessiond> [OPTIONS]

=head1 DESCRIPTION

sessiond is a standalone X session manager that reports the idle status of a
session to B<systemd-logind.service>(8) and handles its lock, unlock, sleep, and
shutdown signals. sessiond also provides hooks triggered by inactivity or a
signal, automatic backlight dimming on idle, and optional management of DPMS
settings.

=head1 OPTIONS

=over

=item B<-h>, B<--help>

Show help options.

=item B<-c>, B<--config>=I<CONFIG>

Path to config file. See B<sessiond.conf>(5) for configuration options.

=item B<-i>, B<--idle-sec>=I<SEC>

Seconds the session must be inactive before considered idle.

=item B<-v>, B<--version>

Show version.

=back

=head1 DBUS SERVICE

sessiond provides a DBus service on the session bus at the well-known name
I<org.sessiond.session1>.

=head2 Session interface

The B</org/sessiond/session1> object implements the
B<org.sessiond.session1.Session> interface, which exposes the following
methods, properties, and signals:

=head3 METHODS

=over

=item B<Lock>

Lock the session. Returns an error if the session is already locked.

=item B<Unlock>

Unlock the session. Returns an error if the session is not locked.

=item B<Inhibit>

Inhibit inactivity. The session will always be considered active if at least
one inhibitor is running. Takes two arguments:

=over

=item I<who>

A string describing who is inhibiting.

=item I<why>

A string describing why the inhibitor is running.

=back

Returns a unique ID used to stop the inhibitor.

=item B<Uninhibit>

Stop an inhibitor. Takes one argument:

=over

=item I<id>

The unique ID of the inhibitor to stop.

=back

Returns an error if the ID is not valid or does not exist.

=item B<StopInhibitors>

Stop running inhibitors. Returns the number of inhibitors stopped.

=item B<ListInhibitors>

List running inhibitors. Returns a dictionary mapping IDs to tuples of the
creation timestamp and I<who> and I<why> strings.

=back

=head3 PROPERTIES

=over

=item B<InhibitedHint>

The inhibited state of the session.

=item B<LockedHint>

The locked state of the session.

=item B<IdleHint>

The idle state of the session.

=item B<IdleSinceHint>

The timestamp of the last change to B<IdleHint>.

=item B<IdleSinceHintMonotonic>

The timestamp of the last change to B<IdleHint> in monotonic time.

=item B<Backlights>

An array of object paths to exported Backlights.

=item B<Version>

The version of sessiond.

=back

=head3 SIGNALS

=over

=item B<Lock>

Emitted when the session is locked. B<LockedHint> will be true.

=item B<Unlock>

Emitted when the session is unlocked. B<LockedHint> will be false.

=item B<Idle>

Emitted when the session becomes idle. B<IdleHint> will be true.

=item B<Active>

Emitted when activity resumes in an inactive session.
B<IdleHint> will be false.

=item B<Inactive> B<seconds>

Emitted when the session becomes inactive, with the B<seconds> argument being
the number of seconds since activity. Its value will be equal to either the
I<IdleSec> or I<DimSec> configuration option (see B<sessiond.conf>(5)), or the
I<InactiveSec> option of a hook with an B<Inactive> trigger
(see B<sessiond-hooks>(5)).

=item B<PrepareForSleep> B<state>

Emitted before and after system sleep, with the B<state> argument being true
and false respectively.

=item B<PrepareForShutdown> B<state>

Emitted before and after system shutdown, with the B<state> argument being true
and false respectively.

=item B<AddBacklight> B<path>

Emitted when a backlight is added, with B<path> being the object path of the
new backlight.

=item B<RemoveBacklight> B<path>

Emitted when a backlight is removed, with B<path> being the old object path of
the backlight.

=back

=head2 Backlight interface

The B</org/sessiond/session1/backlight/*> objects implement the
B<org.sessiond.session1.Backlight> interface, which exposes the following
methods and properties:

=head3 METHODS

=over

=item B<SetBrightness>

Set the brightness of the backlight. Takes one argument:

=over

=item I<brightness>

An unsigned integer value.

=back

Returns an error if unable to set brightness.

=item B<IncBrightness>

Increment the brightness of the backlight. Takes one argument:

=over

=item I<value>

An integer value added to the backlight's current brightness.

=back

Returns the new brightness value or an error if unable to set brightness.

=back

=head3 PROPERTIES

=over

=item B<Online>

True if the backlight is online, false otherwise.

=item B<DevPath>

Path to the backlight device without the sys mount point.

=item B<Name>

Name of the backlight.

=item B<Subsystem>

Subsystem to which the backlight belongs. Possible values are: "backlight" or
"leds".

=item B<SysPath>

Path to the device via sys mount point. Format is:
"/sys/class/I<Subsystem>/I<Name>".

=item B<Brightness>

Current brightness of backlight.

=item B<MaxBrightness>

Max brightness of backlight.

=back

=head2 Introspection

=over

=item For complete introspection data, use B<gdbus>(1):

B<gdbus> introspect --session --dest I<org.sessiond.session1> --object-path
I</org/sessiond/session1>

=back

=head1 DEBUGGING

Running sessiond with the environment variable I<G_MESSAGES_DEBUG> set to "all"
will print debug messages.

=head1 AUTHOR

James Reed E<lt>jcrd@sessiond.orgE<gt>

=head1 REPORTING BUGS

Bugs and issues can be reported here: L<https://github.com/jcrd/sessiond/issues>

=head1 COPYRIGHT

Copyright 2018-2020 James Reed. sessiond is licensed under the
GNU General Public License v3.0 or later.

=head1 SEE ALSO

B<sessiond.conf>(5), B<sessiond-hooks>(5), B<systemd-logind.service>(8), B<gdbus>(1)
