=head1 NAME

sessionctl - standalone X session manager client

=head1 SYNOPSIS

B<sessionctl> [command]

=head1 DESCRIPTION

sessionctl is responsible for running a sessiond session and interacting with
its DBus service.

=head1 COMMANDS

=over

=item B<run> [I<SERVICE>]

Run a new session, with I<SERVICE> as the window manager service if provided.
By default, the service installed under the I<window-manager.service> alias is
used.

=item B<stop>

Stop the running session.

=item B<status>

Show session status.

=item B<lock>

Lock the session.

=item B<unlock>

Unlock the session.

=item B<properties>

List sessiond properties.

=item B<backlight> [I<NAME>]

Interact with backlights.
If backlight I<NAME> is given with no options, print brightness.
If no arguments are given, list backlights.

Options:

=over

=item B<-s> I<VALUE>, B<--set> I<VALUE>

Set backlight brightness.

=item B<-i> I<VALUE>, B<--inc> I<VALUE>

Increment backlight brightness.
Prints the new brightness value.

=back

=item B<audiosink> [I<ID>]

Interact with audio sinks.
If audio sink I<ID> is given with no options, print volume and mute state.
If no arguments are given, list audio sinks.

Options:

=over

=item B<-s> I<VALUE>, B<--set> I<VALUE>

Set audio sink volume.

=item B<-i> I<VALUE>, B<--inc> I<VALUE>

Increment audio sink volume.
Prints the new volume value.

=item B<-m>, B<--mute>

Mute audio sink.

=item B<-u>, B<--unmute>

Unmute audio sink.

=item B<-t>, B<--toggle-mute>

Toggle audio sink mute state.
Prints the new mute state.

=back

=item B<version>

Show sessiond version.

=back

=head1 AUTHOR

James Reed E<lt>jcrd@sessiond.orgE<gt>

=head1 REPORTING BUGS

Bugs and issues can be reported here: L<https://github.com/jcrd/sessiond/issues>

=head1 COPYRIGHT

Copyright 2019-2020 James Reed. sessiond is licensed under the
GNU General Public License v3.0 or later.

=head1 SEE ALSO

B<systemctl>(1), B<gdbus>(1)
