=head1 NAME

sessiond.conf - sessiond configuration file format

=head1 SYNOPSIS

I<XDG_CONFIG_HOME>/sessiond/sessiond.conf or
I<HOME>/.config/sessiond/sessiond.conf

=head1 DESCRIPTION

This file configures the X session manager B<sessiond>(1). Its syntax is
toml v0.5.0. See: I<https://github.com/toml-lang/toml/tree/v0.5.0>.

=head1 OPTIONS

=head2 [Idle]

=over

=item I<Inputs=>

A list (of the format ["item", "item"]) of input event types used to determine
activity.  Values are "motion", "button-press", "button-release", "key-press",
"key-release".

=item I<IdleSec=>

Seconds the session must be inactive before considered idle.

=back

=head2 [Lock]

=over

=item I<OnIdle=>

If "true", lock the session when it becomes idle.

=item I<OnSleep=>

If "true", lock the session when B<systemd-logind>(8) sends the
"PrepareForSleep" signal.

=item I<StandbySec=>

DPMS standby timeout in seconds to use while session is locked.
Must occur before or simultaneously with Suspend timeout.

=item I<SuspendSec=>

DPMS suspend timeout in seconds to use while session is locked.
Must occur before or simultaneously with Off timeout.

=item I<OffSec=>

DPMS off timeout in seconds to use while session is locked.

=back

=head2 [DPMS]

=over

=item I<Enable=>

If "true", apply DPMS settings, including those in the "[Lock]" section.

=item I<StandbySec=>

DPMS standby timeout in seconds. Must occur before or simultaneously with
Suspend timeout.

=item I<SuspendSec=>

DPMS suspend timeout in seconds. Must occur before or simultaneously with
Off timeout.

=item I<OffSec=>

DPMS off timeout in seconds.

=back

=head2 [[Backlight]]

Backlights are configured as an array of tables, using the section
"[[Backlight]]". The options will be applied to backlights with the same path.

=over

=item I<Path=>

Path to the backlight device via sys mount point. Should be of the format:
"/sys/class/I<subsystem>/I<name>".

=item I<DimSec=>

Seconds the session must be inactive before the backlight is dimmed.

=item I<DimValue=>

Value of the backlight brightness when dimming.

=item I<DimPercent=>

Percentage to lower backlight brightness when dimming.

=back

=head2 [[Hook]]

Hooks are configured as an array of tables, using the section "[[Hook]]".
See B<sessiond-hooks>(5) for a description of options.

=head1 SEE ALSO

B<sessiond>(1), B<systemd-logind>(8), B<sessiond-hooks>(5)
